As the design philosophy I would go for, for question one, which is flagship roguelike with roguelike structure vs. full deck builder, I'm thinking a bit more on the hybrids. The pure roguelike fixed deck plus roguelike layer (A) is good but I'd like to have a bit more modification, so suit switching, rack morphing, and temporary card injection. I think that's a good idea to basically have it so runes can also be unique and not too much slate aspire, so not a full deck builder but kind of like this: this is what you have in terms of 52 cards and here's the range of stuff you can do to change. There was also this idea of maybe each class having an effect on the deck, per se, not only abilities, so that would really make it so each character is unique. Also I think the hybrid modification would help more with the development of the characters, to this kind of branching off and getting additional abilities and building as if you were playing an MMO with a skill tree that's pretty big that changes the game. It's going to be a big balancing act but that's the vision we have for right now so that's something to consider. 


For question 2, we need to update all the documents with the idea of provinces. That means that, from the UI perspective, it's not going to be just a button for Chapter 1, Chapter 2, Chapter 3. It will be like a whole map of a kingdom. They will need to be imagined anyway, but you click on the first province that's available; that's Chapter 1, and then you'll have a path that unlocks Chapter 2, which will be again this kind of loop of gates, courtyard, throne. This is still what we're doing right now, so it's not the full 12 enemy castle right now, so it has changed the whole process. That's what we have in mind.

Death is equal to a full reset in this case, yes, for sure. Second wind, I'm not really sure about that; I don't think there should be something. Retreats give no rest, so that's also something.

It's going to be that the province also keeps relics, so that's going to be really important also. Relics are a way to personalize and have your kind of strategy that you want to develop, so from the user perspective you want to have the impression that you're kind of growing up in terms of characters and abilities. You want to push this engine to the maximum until the end and you win the game if you basically push the engine to the top.

Once you've unlocked provinces, they are unlocked, meaning that if you die at Province 3 when you started from Province 1, well the next run you can just start it from Province 3. Province 3 will give you a kind of specialization bonus you would have had after Chapter 1 and after Chapter 2 from the get-go to make sure that you're kind of calibrated for that, and also a selection of relics and spells to kind of compensate the power level because you've kept those relics from your runs so you'd have a pool from which you can select from. For right now I'm not implementing any kind of candles or heirlooms, but it's something to consider also. That makes it so the pool of selection of relics is higher and you unlock basically specialization trees when you win with certain characters; that could be something to take into consideration but for right now that's what we have in mind for the province structure.

The idea is that I'm basically going to keep and adopt the province structure, so that would be option B in that case. It does maybe destroy the existing city calibration but we'll just need to re-derive it; that's not really a big problem. 


I would make it so that Camp is really a big resource. I would want to have the option B, and it's fine for the high cognitive load. It's also fine that it pushes the decision through the full chapter, making it much more difficult, or, I should say, at that point, much more important for the user perspective.

We want to make it so the win rate for the first chapter should be about 50%. Meaning that bad luck from the first gate makes it so you don't achieve it is within the bounds of what we were thinking for the game.

I think it's going to be very important that in between chapters you're resetting the deck completely. You're still keeping the relics and the specialization but you reset with a 52-card deck and you need to rebuild or re-win your jacks, queens, and kings. If you start every chapter with the deck that you had the last time, it's going to be a bit hellish to understand where it is. Maybe you do scale it but I think the scaling must much more be done through characters and through relics. I want to create feelings of, "Oh I have this character specialized there with that item and it made my runs almost unbeatable until I hit this wall," you know, this kind of thing.

The deck it's more like life sources and you reset basically in between provinces. That's what I have in terms of ideas in terms of the deck persistence in the specific provinces per se. There is no reset of the deck until you hit a Camp so Camp are going to be very important landmarks and there should always be at least one Camp in between the queen and king process. I think that's one of the ideas we could implement. 

I'm okay with having some classes that are much stronger or designed for multiplayer. I'm okay with having maybe 8 heroes and one or two of them are specialized for 2-4 players. Maybe even one that's better for a single companion if you play two and one hero that's especially specialized if you play four. I'm okay with that.

That means that all of the other heroes should not have any dead mechanics. There should be, I consider, a kind of like the equivalent of a selection screen or something that makes it so when you play multiplayer you kind of change a bit the abilities. For right now we really need to consider that 70% of the people are going to play solo so the abilities must be coherent with that. That means that it's optional. Option A basically has a huge blast radius but it is what it is and that's what needs to be done and we can then concentrate afterwards as a second kind of like branch parallel on multiplayer.

I think multiplayer will make the game even funner and enjoyable but to be realistic this is a video game so people will most likely play alone most of the time. That is why we have the 70/30 split. 

I agree with all of the proposed final terminology. It's fine. It's just that we basically need my colleague and me to make sure that we revisit that wording but yes please upgrade all of those terms. Make it so it's clear provinces are kind of like chapters or ascension in this case. The difficulty tier is indeed province 1, province 2, province 3, and except for that yes gates are basically climaxes of each act and acts are like that. Yeah I agree. That's going to be how it's going to work. 


The currency aspect for relics and spells that you can buy before, Darkest Dungeon style, is interesting. It does need to have a ceiling, that's for sure, but I think there's a question of unlocking the types of relics. I'm convinced that the game should be kind of blocked to a certain extent.

When you start you have four heroes, one specialization branch each, and a set number of relics, spells, and preparations. As you die and accumulate, you get the equivalent of candles. We should rename it but for right now let's just put the placeholder for candles. These candles will allow the user to either boost a bit their run. That's going to be like the soft ceiling: you'll always be limited in terms of how much you can boost your next run. There's also this aspect that you're going to start by basically updating your character. Some characters, all of a sudden, you can unlock other specialization branches with that currency. You're going to expand the possible relic pool, expand the number of spells, and expand preparations. As you move along the game gets wider and the widening of the game is with this kind of currency that you have when you die. It makes it so it's not too overwhelming from the get-go but it still gives you options.

When you start the game for the first time with kingdom having no upgrades, you'll have four heroes, one specialization each, a small set of available relics, a small set of spells, and a small set of preparations. After a couple of runs, two, three, four runs, the player will start having intuition about what's available. As he's building that intuition he will also be able to unlock other stuff, which will also create this kind of loop of like "oh I need to test this," "oh this is a new run," "oh I need to." Making it so death is an opportunity not a total failure, this is the idea. Now how do we build that? That's another question but for right now we can just put that as the design answer. 

Finally for the items and relics I agree that we should really boost it there. Like I said the design philosophy should be that once a run has ended a player could then talk to his friends and say, "I've used this character with this specialization in the province, let's say, 6 and I got relic A/B. It made me feel invincible until I hit the wall at province 6, where everything collapsed but it was so fun I would want to replay it. You should play that build and so people will start sharing builds, sharing specialization, sharing their experience. Since it is highly personable, not a total deck building but more so an engine building, it makes it so the engine at the end can be not necessarily perfectly unique, because of course we're limited in terms of relics and permutations, but clear enough so that people feel like they've built something in which they infused a bit of their own play style, personality, and interests in general. That's a bit the idea.

In that perspective I think the current items are not really adapted for that so relics would need a specific boost. There's also, like I said earlier, blocking a certain level of relics and also specialization under a kind of meta progression from the kingdom perspective. 

Finally for builds and classes I think further playtesting will be necessary to evaluate exactly what we need. I said the idea that executioner makes it so there's a lot more cards that make it so you have exact kills, which has a quick dopamine hit of "oh yes another exact kill, oh yes another exact kill". It's not the case for the other characters; some characters created fun for us but I would say most of the characters didn't really hit that kind of dopamine hit at all. That's going to be something to consider as we move along for building the characters.

I think there should be a class design document specifically attributed to classes. I think it's going to be separate from the whole game design philosophy. A lot of thought will need to be put there; it's going to be one of the pillars of this campaign or game. 